All right, so next up, in learning how to kind of clean up and and make things a little more accessible
and readable, sometimes with regular expressions.
We're going to learn about comments.
So it is possible to actually put comments in our regular expressions so that we can give ourselves
a little bit more of a hint or clue as to what's going on in this big mess of, you know, gobbledygook
now.
By default, the Java Rejects Engine does not enable this, so we have to go out of our way a little
bit.
I mean, not out of our way, but so we have to enable this ourselves.
OK, first off, let me close this this area here.
All right.
So the way to do this is right here.
When we first are compiling our rig, our regular expression, we can actually pass in a second parameter,
which will be a number of what are called flags.
And those flags allow us to turn on or off certain behaviors of the regular expression engine so we
can kind of configure how it will behave or how it will interpret our rejects.
OK.
And so what we can do is put the comma right after the the regular expression parameter there, but
a comma there, and now we can reference some of those flags.
These flags are just like, think of them as toggle switches that you're turning on or off to to tell
the Rig X engine how you want it to behave in more detail.
OK.
Those flags are actually constants that live on the pattern class, so to access them, we reference
the pattern class just like this pattern dot.
And now we will see they are all of these capitalized all caps values here, and they're actually integers.
These are just the names of the integer values.
OK, so multi line and can an IQ commons case insensitive?
All these different things that we can kind of turn on or off or whatever will mostly turn on?
The one that we're most interested in right now is comments so we can just select that.
And so now we're telling the ragga engine to allow us to comment in our regular expression.
Now this has certain ramifications, though, that you need to be very aware of.
And I have tripped myself up with this, in fact.
So.
And so what this is is not only is it going to allow us to put comments in here, but it also, perhaps
more importantly, tells the regex engine to ignore spaces now white space.
So I don't know if you remember in one of the earlier regex lessons when we were first learning how
to do basic things with cat or whatever.
I think I showed that you could just put a space in a rag accent that would match if you had a space
in your incoming string or whatever.
But when you use the comments mode of the rejects engine putting a space somewhere like if I were to,
I don't know where to put a good one here.
Looks like we're not using spaces here anyway, which is good, but let's say here, I'll use a really
simple example right here.
I'm going to make a comment here.
So let's say we had an incoming string of I am good, OK?
And then we had a reggae acts.
Now we could just do a literal string, literal rejects here that would just match one for one.
I am good, just like that, right?
So that the second line would be the rejects.
The first line would be the string that we're trying to match against.
And by default, this would work just fine.
However, if we did this with the Rejects engine, with the comments mode turned on, this would not
work because it would ignore these spaces here.
That's what I'm saying.
OK, so you got to be careful, and what you'd have to do instead is explicitly say there's a space
expected here and there's a space expected there which suddenly becomes less readable, ironically.
But that's so that's a little bit of a tradeoff with using the comments mode.
OK, now you can comment things, but you can't just put literal spaces in your regular expression anymore.
All right.
So I'm going to delete those two lines.
OK, so we've turned on the comments ability and in our current projects here, I don't see that we
are depending on spaces anyway.
So I think we're good in fact here to test that.
We'll just quickly run this again and make sure that it still works because the only thing we've changed
is just by turning on the comments for now.
Yet still works.
OK, so we're good.
All right.
So then the next thing we can do is actually put some comments in here.
Now there are a couple of ways that we can go about doing this.
And one way that I kind of like in modern versions of Java is actually to use a text block or a multi-line
string.
And if you'll recall to do that, what we do is we just instead of using one quotation, we use three.
So I'm just going to introduce three quotes there.
And then over here, I'm going to put two more.
OK.
And then the way this works is that when you're using a text block in Java, the you have to have a
new line after those opening three quotes, right?
OK, so now the squiggly lines all went away.
Now let's just run this again and make sure that it's still happy.
OK.
Yeah, so that still works.
All right.
And so now we can start breaking this apart a little bit and making it a little easier perhaps to to
read.
And I think the most natural way to break this apart would be based on the parts that we're trying to
pass, right?
So here's the country code, right?
So the country code bits are from here to here, including that question mark there, right?
So I'm going to put the cursor right there and break that off and then let's run this again and just
make sure that we didn't break anything.
Yet still works, and that's still working, in part because in comment mode, it's ignoring white space,
which would be all of this, right?
All right.
And then the next part is the area code.
So that goes until here.
I believe the even I have to look at this really carefully to make sure I'm getting it in the right
places, right?
Okay.
So again, I'm going to just hit return there and break that, and I guess I'm going to run it again
and make sure.
It doesn't hurt to just, you know, make small changes and then run it, run your code again and make
sure you didn't break anything.
Later on, we can learn about writing unit tests, which are automated tests where we don't even have
to.
We don't have to run this manually because sometimes you might have a really big program where to get
to the part that you're trying to test.
It would take a lot of time.
And really, you just want to make sure that the small part where you're making code changes didn't
break, and that's where something like a technique like unit testing can really come in handy.
So we will learn that later in the in the course.
All right.
And it looks like we're good here.
And then another place to break out is right here.
OK.
All right, so it looks like we've gotten everything broken down now.
And I'm just running again.
OK, cool, so we didn't break anything, but we did split that string are split the regex up into logical
groupings now.
So that makes it a little nicer to read already.
And especially since we've got these these named Captur groups, these already kind of serve as little
little hints of what's going on in each line.
But we can be even more explicit now.
Now that we have support for comments, we can put a cursor somewhere on a line like here and I'm going
to use a space.
I don't need it.
And then if I want to type an explicit comment, I can use no sign or hashtag and then I can write a
comment.
I'm big on having spaces, but you don't need a space here, and I'm going to say I don't know gets
country code, and let's just run this and make sure that this is still going to work.
Yep, still good.
All right, so I'm going to comment everything now gets area code, gets exchange looks.
And then the last one now here you want to be a little careful.
I left the closing tax block thing here, which is the three closing quotes on the same line.
I may or may not want to keep it that way.
I don't know if you do keep it that way.
That's fine.
So I can just do a space and then here and then say, get line number.
I can do it that way.
Or I can probably put this on its own line by simply hitting return right there.
Let's run this and make sure it's still happy.
Yeah, we're still good.
OK.
And then I can even have a comment up here at top.
This is my ex to pass in the parts of a phone number and I'll run again just to make sure that is still
happy.
Yep, still good.
So look at that now that just got a lot more readable, didn't it?
It's still a little little intimidating on the inside of each of these, but now at least you've broken
it out by logical parts, right?
And so your brain doesn't have to process one big, long, scary line, and instead your brain can process
just one part.
You know, one functional part of the expression, which is much, much, much better.
OK, so that's a really powerful technique that I would definitely encourage you to be aware of.
But again, I'm just going to reemphasize one more time you have to be careful with this, because now
if you're going to if you were writing regular expressions that were depending on literal spaces in
the expression itself, those will no longer work and your rejects will suddenly go from having worked
to immediately being broken.
And sometimes, if you're not remembering this rule or this fact, you'll wonder, Oh my gosh, how
come it's not working?
Which is why it's a really good idea.
Probably if you do retroactively enable this common thing to just only make one change at a time.
And the first change should be to simply enable comments and then run your regex.
Write them right away.
If it suddenly doesn't work after you knew it had been working.
Almost certainly your problem is that you have literal spaces somewhere in the rejects that you need
to go find and replace with a character class like like the English s something like that.
All right.
And I think that's going to wrap up this lesson on commenting, and I'll see you in the next one.